- Pray of comfortable with your standing and in which you were sitting. Remember, there's a Zoom Watson, if you've got a lecture zoom right here, might be more comfortable. It’s great to have everybody here. think that's delightful. But don't be uncomfortable. And also this lecture is All the lectures are recorded, and you can find the recordings of the courses. we go.


 - It is assigned to the name on the left. That's the rule of how assignment statements are executed. Here's an important thing that sometimes people find surprising. you set x equal to 2 and y equal to x plus 1, this is allowed because x has a value. Its value is 2, you add 2 plus 1 together and now y is 3. If you then change x to 5, is 5, x is 5, but what about y? was bound to the value three. when we wrote y equals x plus 1, we computed three, and then we forgot about how we got that three. y is still 3. It's not the case that y will automatically update to 6 just because we wrote x plus 1 a long time ago and x is now 5, it stays assigned to the value that we assigned it to when we assigned it, which was back up here. Questions? Check out this craziness. So, oh, wrong cross, sorry We start up Python. I set x equals 2 and x is that. The power function we talked about last time raises 10 to the second power. Different from raising two to the 10th power. What if I write, how equals max? Well, now when I evaluate how, instead of seeing the built-in function pow, I see the built-in function max. So what's 2 to the 10th power? 10. 10. No. 2 to the 10 power is not 10.,000 to 10 powers is 1,024. But how is a name for the max function and so when I write pow 2 10, it's taking the max of 2 and ten, which is the bigger one. This is an assignment statement that evaluates what's on the right hand side, finds max function and assigns it to the name on the left. And so now pow is equal to the max function. Thank you. When you have a Paul expression, which is some expression followed by parentheses with commas in it. You evaluate the operator, you get a function. evaluate the operands, those are the expressions in parentheses, You get arguments a function of the value, arguments are values, functions are special because you can apply the functions to the arguments and stuff happens. Like you get maxes and powers stuff like that. When I write max equals pow, and then I write max of 2, 5 5, I have done the following thing. have assigned the name max to the function that raises something to the power of another number. Then I have written down a call expression every time we evaluate a color expression, we do this procedure that Kay talked about last time, you evaluate the operator first, Max is a name for the function that raises one number to the power of another. This evaluates the two and that evaluates the ten and the whole thing is 1,024. that. questions Yeah? How do we change the hashtag to the other thing? Well, okay, so let's start over. You were wondering if I had which takes 210 and then I change max to pow, and now when I try to take the max of two in 10, I get a different answer, how do I get the old max function back always just quit Python Start Again. It is actually your job to keep track of all the values you want to refer to later. So in that sense, there's no undo in Python. There's no escape valve that lets you get values back that you've lost track of, general. Max is a little bit special because it's built in. think there's some way where if you set max equal to pow, then you can like dig deep into the guts of Python And then you can get it back. Oh, there it is. Okay, so we could get it back call it on 2 and 10, and that would work. We could even reassign Max back to this weird thing. but this is not like something you should know. But now you know it, I guess. So it happens to be that for max, there's a way to get it back. But in general, you can't get values back and you don't have a name for them. Because that's how Python organizes all this information, is that you have to have a name for every value that you want to refer to. Can I just talk about final ideas of building on max, which we eliminate on max. You really wanted to turn this into 12, and now we try to get it back, and we didn't. Yeah. Yeah, it's a sad day, I guess. I don't know how to get it back now. It's different, right? That's good. Uh, you do one. Let's say we start it over. So we quit and we start it up again. forget this stuff on the left. And just look at this example. So pow actually works. Pow is pow. Max is max. I raise two to the power. I said max equal to power, I said power two to the 10th, what is that? And then if I say pow equals max and then run pow through the 10 again, what is it the second time? Up on that ball and see what you get.  It can matter. But these are really two names for the same thing, as opposed to two different power functions. And we're not going to see why that matters for a few weeks, but that's why we draw the diagrams the way we do is to kind of set us up for a future where it matters that you might have two games for the same. Do I have an iterator in a for loop? What about iterators and for loops? and we're not going to talk about them for a long time. But you are welcome to try it you can load up pilot tutor and play with whatever you want. But if you don't need that for a little while, so I'll delete that question. Thank you. defined. When I call square of 3, I introduce a new frame. The global frame's still there, The square frame is now here. The square frame has x bound to 3.
