It can be easier to solve a problem than if you chose the wrong way. So pretty much any language you can probably get there. But in computer science, a lot of problems have the right way to solve them. And so learning that there's different languages for different kinds of problems is a really important and fundamental language.
With your partner, you can just like work on it together. You can look at each other's screen. But with everybody in the course, you're welcome to talk about, oh, you know, this problem was just like that other one we did in lecture, and here's how I got going. And so you're welcome to work with more of the Disney project partner. In the back. So you say SQL would be a problem program working? I don't know where it is applied, but where is SQL? What is SQL? Where is it applied? And how come you’ve never seen anyone use it? It's a way to interact with databases. We'll learn all about it pretty soon. But databases are what store all the information about the world, like your credit card history and stuff like that. Good question. What about functional programming? This one in the middle, Gleam, is a functional programming language, so we will talk about that. Good question. Like how do you get your computer set up in order to do this? And will everybody use the same setup? Everyone will use the same setup. And there is going to be a new, I mean, there's going to be an assignment that's just about getting your computer set up. Release tonight. And it walks you through it. And then we’ll hold some drop-in help in case you get stuck. And so we'll kind of get everybody with the same configuration. And that will help everybody kind of know how to talk to each other and keep us as like a community working together. How often do you say you use a glean? What about this language glean you've never heard of? How much do we use that? Just a week before we learn it. Oh.
 It's changed the way people write programs dramatically. A lot of the people that we know that are building software aren't doing it by typing out every line of code anymore. Instead, they're working with AI assistants. That's just completely changed the way software is developed. But it turns out, I've talked to a lot of these people, and I'm one myself, that understanding what's going on in programs and how to do programming yourself gives you such a huge advantage when using AI versus not understanding stuff that the best way to learn how to use AI is just to learn how to program. And so most of this class is just doing it that way. The path to understanding is to solve a lot of problems yourself, write a lot of programs yourself, get that practice, and then you could actually be a competent user of artificial intelligence. I would say that using AI too much can impede your path to understanding. If every time you get stuck, you ask AI to help you out, you won't learn how to get yourself unstuck. You won't learn why all the wrong answers don't work. And you won't develop that skill of being able to understand what's going on inside of a program. So you have to be very careful about AI use. When I say don't use it, which I will in a minute, I mean don't use it. It's not because I care about the programs you're writing, although I do. It's because I care about what you're learning. And the only way that we've seen in the world to really learn about programs and programming so that you can become an expert who can use AI effectively is to actually solve the problems yourself. It's fine to talk to other people. It's fine to ask for help. But if you ask them the answers, you don't. We will use AI in the course in two ways. We'll have 11 weeks. That's a really long time. Or you write programs on your own. But we do provide one course AI tool that will help you get this done. Because I don't want you to feel like there's no way to get any assistance. That can be frustrating. So you can come talk to the staff at the time you want. But don't turn to chat to your team to get the answer. Instead, use our tool, which just tells you where your problems are, and then you have to figure out how to fix that. It works pretty well. We've done that for a few years. And then we're going to do something new this semester. After 11 weeks of writing programs on our own, we're going to learn how to use AI assistance, just like everybody's doing who's building programs. So learn the fundamentals and understand what you're doing first, and then we'll talk about how to use a detective. But 90% of learning to use AI is just understanding what you're trying to build, how you want it to be, and describing it.
 really like the AI skill that's just understanding programming and the other ten percent is learning to use the tools. Okay so that's what's to come up. We have course website hopefully you found it. If not looks like this. It's got lines for every lecture including the lecture slides. It's got some announcements at the top and then here's how you find the lecture zoom. Here's how you find Ed our course forum. I use the syllabus, everything is there. Importantly, if you want to know
really like the AI skill that's just understanding programming and the other ten percent is learning to use the tools. Okay so that's what's to come up. We have course website hopefully you found it. If not looks like this. It's got lines for every lecture including the lecture slides. It's got some announcements at the top and then here's how you find the lecture zoom. Here's how you find Ed our course forum. I use the syllabus, everything is there. Importantly, if you want to know
There's a textbook. It's written to be really short, but still useful. It's very similar to the videos. So if you hate videos, you're fine reading the textbook instead, or you can do both. We've got a lecture, but it's not going to cover everything. It's only going to cover the most important stuff. If you want to cover everything, you've got to watch the videos. Or read the textbook. Lecture is like the highlights. It's like the concert that you go to if there's a band. Has anyone been to a concert in your life? Of course, there's a lot. That's fine. Has anyone been to a concert at the Greek theater? It's just here on campus, a few people. That's what this picture is. If you're going to a concert for a band that you like, you know,album first and that covers all their songs and then you're like ready to rock out when you get to the concert. Lecture is like the concert and the videos are like the album. You watch the videos first and then you're ready to understand what happens in lecture and lecture is all about working through examples, understanding the tricky bits and getting our perspective on how to approach problem so cool don't just listen to me listen to the past students on the final survey i ask them what advice do you have and they always say watch your videos make sure to watch the videos before a lecture the lecture can then be used for asking questions and furthering your understanding do that it works okay questions Good question. We're going to use security control. Okay. The question is, is this course practical definitely Definitely, in the sense that if you want to know about how software is built, you have to understand what we take to about programming in order to do it well. Does it teach you the skills you're going to use on the first day of your internship? Well, sometimes. That's not my goal. Our goal is to teach you the ideas that will help you understand stuff, you know, for many years to come. But it's still pretty attractive.The question is, will you build a project using AI? I'll show it to you at the end of the lecture. Yes? Okay. In order to learn, you can't just come to lecture and listen. That's not how you learn anything, especially computer science. You have to practice. You don't learn to play the piano by listening to somebody play the piano. It's fun, but you have to do it yourself. You have to learn how to solve problems with practice. If you find it's hard at first, that's normal. But if you practice, it will become easier. That's why we have lab, and attendance is required. That's why we have discussion. That starts this week, and attendance is required. And these sets you up to do your homework and the project. And then we have quizzes. And the quizzes just ask you to redo a homework problem. Why do we need to make you redo a homework problem? Well, some people don't do their homework. They have AI do their homework, and then they don't learn anything. If you do that, you’re going to fail the quiz. If you do the homework yourself, you're going to pass the quiz, because all you're doing on the quiz is redoing the slight variance of the homework problem. So quizzes in this course are very chill if you do your homework, but make sure you do your homework. We do have drop-in help, call out this hours. We're going to have it for eight hours a week in the new Gateway building starting next week where you can talk to tutors and TAs in addition to the office hours that we have for us. And those are like the parts of the course. Questions about the parts of the course. Yeah. Well, going back to the lecture videos, would you say that all of the information you need in the course in terms of the. All of the information that you need for the course is in the textbook. If you read the textbook and you watch the videos, you'll see, you know, they're both made by me and they're both very similar. So you can choose textbook or videos. I recommend both because why not get the both versions, but either one would do. Yeah. Hi. Good question. Are there midterms and finals? How long are the videos? Usually there's about 25 minutes of videos before each lecture, broken up into three or four videos in a playlist. How do I recommend you watch the videos? Watch them and type out the examples. That works great. Jack. How do we keep track of attendance? How do we keep track of attendance? You'll see. You'll come in and the TAs will check to see the year. What about prior computing experience in this class? Typically about three quarters of students have programmed before and taken a course. That's what we're used to here. For the quarter who haven't, they tend to work many more hours and still not get as high grades on the exams. It's possible to complete this course without prior programming experience. But it's a lot of work because there's a lot of content in this course. If you know some of it already, of course it's going to be easier, right? So that's the reality of Berkeley is a lot of people know things already. They don't know everything in this course, and so they need to take this course. But if you're going in without any prior experience, most students have a better time taking another course first. like the CS10 Beauty and Joy computing course is a great option. If you really want to take this first, I'm not going to stop you because enough students have made it for you and had a good time that I don't want to prevent you from doing that. But I will say there's no rush in college. Like, you're not given any kind of advantage if you finish this course a semester earlier than if you just wait until next semester. So if after the first three weeks you're feeling lost already, It's a great idea to think about changing to another course that moves at a more moderate pace, or is more targeted towards absolute beginners. There's nothing wrong with being a beginner. Everyone was a beginner at some point. But this course does move very fast for people who haven't programmed before. Can you speak to that? The question is what format of the homework assignments you write so the program. You'll see. Are there extra credit opportunities? Are there extra credit opportunities? There's a few. If you turn in the projects a day early, you get more than 22 minutes. That's it. Okay, you're about to go to discussion this week. What's a discussion look like? It looks like a bunch of people sitting around a table discussing. On Berkeley's campus, this is not how it always looks like. Sometimes it looks like a bunch of people listening to a presentation. That's not a discussion. That's a lecture. We don't do that in 61A. Well, it's an option, but I think most of you do what I recommend, which is get into groups and discuss. If that really doesn’t work for you, we do have kind of a lecture style walkthrough that's an option. But really, really try out the discussion-based format first. We try to provide an environment for you to learn how to solve problems together by practicing and talking to each other. Here's something important I'm going to say. In this age of AI, being able to describe things is extremely valuable, more than ever before. Doing stuff, that's also valuable. But being able to describe what you're doing to somebody else has suddenly become an even more important skill than before. Because you can describe what you're doing to a person, but also to a large language model. So use the discussion opportunity to practice talking about what you know and asking questions about what you don't. Okay, discussion starts this week. You'll have a group number. There's about five people in your group. You show up in the room, and there's multiple groups in the same room. You have to find your group. Then, you get an online worksheet. It's already posted right here, the discussion worksheet. And you do it together. That's what the discussion is. The points to learn how to solve similar problems. It's fine if you don't solve the ones on the worksheet, But you should get better at problem solving over the course of the 80 minutes that you’re there. If you solve them all but you don't talk to anybody else, you've really missed out. Talk to the people in your group. That's the point. Cool? It's a good idea to bring a laptop or tablet, put a phone or a piece of paperwork in it. Ask other people for help when needed. Don't be afraid to make friends was one piece of advice from a former student. Questions? Yeah? How does discussion-- You can switch your discussion section. If you look at CS618, you have more of an announcement section. There's some directions. How does discussion work for the mega-- What happens when you're in the mega discussion? You just read the document on your own. Make a discussion means you've opted out of going to discussion. If you want to join a discussion because now it sounds cool, that's fine. Go to the top of CS618.org. The announcement section shows you the direction for how to do that. If there's not enough space, we'll make more space. Just relax. If you missed discussion this week, not a crisis. But you should go because that's how you get to know your group. Yeah, if you click this add or change discussions here, you can even switch. Yeah, so if you haven't found space, then you should post on Ed and say, I need to make something this time. And we'll try to create more space. Okay. Tonight we're going to post Lab Zero. It’s a take home, set up your computer assignment. When you're done setting up your computer, you're supposed to get a window that looks like this. This thing that says code at the top is a Microsoft program called Visual Studio Code. That's what we're going to use. I'm just going to give you like a 10 second orientation to what's going on. There are files. There's one you're going to fill out. And then there's something called the terminal. A terminal is a place where you write commands. You like tell your computer to do stuff. It controls your computer just like a mouse would, but with text. This is where you write programs. This is where you run them. So if you, you know, this you can just copy and paste in normally, but I'm typing it out because I didn't pull it up. If you test your code and you get it wrong, we are going to give you an AI helper that can give you some suggestions. You can leave it off. That's fine. Or you can turn it off. But it's there for you if you want. Use ours. Don't use ChatGPT or Gemini or any of the other ones, because they will just tell you the answer. They know all the problems in this course. This is past students and posted them on the web. But if you use ours, it won’t tell you the answer. It'll just give you some guidance. The other thing is that it will say recording down here. For this semester, we don't just take what you turn in. We're also going to have you turn in a log of how you wrote your file. Did you copy and paste, or did you actually type it out yourself? Now, this might seem like a terrible privacy violation. Maybe it is, but I think it's going to help you to your own work. We don't actually send any information from your computer to the internet. It all gets logged on your computer, and you decide whether to turn it in or not. So all this is doing is keeping track of what you typed and what you pasted and whether you switched out of the app and back in and stuff like that. And it keeps a log and then at the end when you turn it in, you turn it in your log. If you need something on your computer that is outside of VS Code, we won't know about it. If you do something on your computer in a different directory than your lab directory, we won't know about it. It's only keeping track of how you change the files that are like in this homework assignment. And it's keeping track of it on your computer and then at the end you decide to turn it in. Or if you don't want to turn it in, you can just redo the whole thing. You like download it again and redo the whole thing and then turn it in that version. It's fine. You have control of this. But it no longer makes sense for us to grade answers because answers could have come from anywhere. They could have come from you or they could have come from the answer. So we do check the process to look and see whether you actually typed out the answers yourself, and that’s how we know you can do homework. Question? You can read the web and learn stuff from the internet. That's totally fine. Don't look up answers to the questions on the internet. That's the whole point. You can learn from the web. That's okay. So now you know what you're looking for. is a setup where you have a terminal, maps of code, and you have a little AI help word that pops up, as well as something that's tracking your current. The labs here will tell you how to set all this stuff up. If you have questions, you can ask on Ed. Ed's easy to find. It's on the course website right at the top. Lots of you have found it already. It's a forum where you can ask questions. You can email us. We love that. And you can email cs61-amw.edu. You don't have to write that down. It's right here at the top of the website where you hit contact. So this is all something that you can find for yourself. But I'm just telling you, we welcome your questions and comments. If anything seems off, just let us know. I'm going to go really fast through course policies. The point of this course is for you to learn stuff you don't already know. Not to tell me what you already know. You can tell me what you already know, but you don't get credit for that. The point is to learn. And so that means if you're working with somebody who hasn't learned everything yet, that's okay. You can help them. Don't give them a hard time. That helps us build community, and students getting to know each other is really the best part of this course. And the course staff are here to help you. It's not you against the course staff. They're there to help you learn as much as you can from the URIs prepared. That's kind of how this course works. There's a lot of other details about when things are new that are in the course syllabus. I would recommend reading that before next week. You can work together, but you cannot look at somebody else's program to get their answers. If you're a project partner, you can. If you've already solved the problem, you could. But if you're trying to figure out how to do something, don't look at how somebody else did it, talk to them. Don't tell other people the answers, and don't use AI to write answers for you. Please don't make disparaging remarks. Like, how come that person couldn't figure it out? That ruins everybody's day, especially mine. And if this is targeting a gender, race, or ethnicity that's really unacceptable, The Berkeley campus believes this. The EECS department believes this. If it happens, I hope you let me know so that I can stop it. And if you don't want to tell me, you can inform the EECS department, which runs this course, of any issues related to climate. All these slides are on the web if you want them later. You guys want to stop talking? I'll let you teach you something. 


So if you, you know, this you can just copy and paste in normally, but I'm typing it out because I didn't pull it up. If you test your code and you get it wrong, we are going to give you an AI helper that can give you some suggestions. You can leave it off. That's fine. Or you can turn it off. But it's there for you if you want. Use ours. Don't use ChatGPT or Gemini or any of the other ones, because they will just tell you the answer. They know all the problems in this course. This is past students and posted them on the web. But if you use ours, it won't tell you the answer. It'll just give you some guidance. The other thing is that it will say recording down here. For this semester, we don't just take what you turn in. We're also going to have you turn in a log of how you wrote your file. Did you copy and paste, or did you actually type it out yourself? Now, this might seem like a terrible privacy violation. Maybe it is, but I think it's going to help you to your own work. We don't actually send any information from your computer to the internet. It all gets logged on your computer, and you decide whether to turn it in or not. So all this is doing is keeping track of what you typed and what you pasted and whether you switched out of the app and back in and stuff like that. And it keeps a log and then at the end when you turn it in, you turn it in your log. If you need something on your computer that is outside of VS Code, we won't know about it. If you do something on your computer in a different directory than your lab directory, we won't know about it. It's only keeping track of how you change the files that are like in this homework assignment. And it's keeping track of it on your computer and then at the end you decide to turn it in. Or if you don't want to turn it in, you can just redo the whole thing. You like download it again and redo the whole thing and then turn it in that version. It's fine. You have control of this. But it no longer makes sense for us to grade answers because answers could have come from anywhere. They could have come from you or they could have come from the answer. So we do check the process to look and see whether you actually typed out the answers yourself, and that's how we know you can do homework. Question? You can read the web and learn stuff from the internet. That's totally fine. Don't look up answers to the questions on the internet. That's the whole point. You can learn from the web. That's okay. So now you know what you're looking for. is a setup where you have a terminal, maps of code, and you have a little AI help word that pops up, as well as something that's tracking your current. The labs here will tell you how to set all this stuff up. If you have questions, you can ask on Ed. Ed's easy to find. It's on the course website right at the top. Lots of you have found it already. It's a forum where you can ask questions. You can email us. We love that. And you can email cs61-amw.edu. You don't have to write that down. It's right here at the top of the website where you hit contact. So this is all something that you can find for yourself. But I'm just telling you, we welcome your questions and comments. If anything seems off, just let us know. I'm going to go really fast through course policies. The point of this course is for you to learn stuff you don't already know. Not to tell me what you already know. You can tell me what you already know, but you don't get credit for that. The point is to learn. And so that means if you're working with somebody who hasn't learned everything yet, that's okay. You can help them. Don't give them a hard time. That helps us build community, and students getting to know each other is really the best part of this course. And the course staff are here to help you. It's not you against the course staff. They're there to help you learn as much as you can from the URIs prepared. That's kind of how this course works. There's a lot of other details about when things are new that are in the course syllabus. I would recommend reading that before next week. You can work together, but you cannot look at somebody else's program to get their answers. If you're a project partner, you can. If you've already solved the problem, you could. But if you're trying to figure out how to do something, don't look at how somebody else did it, talk to them. Don't tell other people the answers, and don't use AI to write answers for you. Please don't make disparaging remarks. Like, how come that person couldn't figure it out? That ruins everybody's day, especially mine. And if this is targeting a gender, race, or ethnicity that's really unacceptable, The Berkeley campus believes this. The EECS department believes this. If it happens, I hope you let me know so that I can stop it. And if you don't want to tell me, you can inform the EECS department, which runs this course, of any issues related to climate. All these slides are on the web if you want them later. You guys want to stop talking? I'll let you teach you something
 also called an operand. polleThe first thing that it does is evaluate the operator. So it finds the thing before the parentheses and figures out what it is. It was sort of like, what are we doing? Okay, we're adding. The next thing that Python does is evaluates each of the operands. So it evaluates one plus one to get two. Evaluates three. That's just three. Once those are evaluated, those are each called arguments. And then finally, Python applies the function to the arguments. So here we would apply add to 2 and 3, and we would get the results done. We can use this exact same procedure to evaluate nested expressions. So here's a much bigger expression. One thing that's kind of nifty is our evaluation procedure. Here's a little cheat sheet for it. It didn't specify how to evaluate a big expression like this. It didn't say what to do if you have one function that calls another function that takes another function as an argument. Instead, it has this definition that refers to itself. So we evaluate the operand and evaluate each operand. And in doing that, we might need to do this same procedure again. So to evaluate this first operand, add four to mole four and six, we've got to evaluate this whole sub-expression. Okay, we've got five minutes left, so I think there's time for you all to do something. You can take a minute and talk to the person next to you about which part of this expression gets evaluated first. And then you can spin the ball We'll make this more exciting on Friday. Then I want to evaluate each of the operands. So it starts with this first one at 4 to the result of multiplying 4 and 6. We've got to evaluate the add. Then we've got to evaluate each of the operands. In order to do that, we've got to evaluate this mole 4 and 6, which means we’ve got to evaluate the mole and the 4 and the 6. And then finally, we can get a result, which we're going to put in this little box up here. That's 24. And then continue going with our sequence. Any questions about, do I have any call expressions? Okay, let's name all of the parts that we just did so you can tell all your friends you learned some great new words. This whole thing is called the expression tree. This ad for little four and six is called an operand sub-expression. It's an operand but it's also an expression and it's part of a bigger call expression, so that's why it's called the sub-expression. In that little square box, we've got the value of the set expression. What could a value be to do? That’s also the first argument to mull. That’s 28. And 224 is the value of the whole expression. We've got two minutes left, and John's going to show you a project. I'll show you where you're at, just to get too excited about what you're going to do at the end of the course. This is a course about programming, of course. So the project that you'll build at the end involves writing programs. Here's a program. This program draws something. It draws this cool-looking screen art right there. Yeah, okay. I think you're good. What's great about programs is they're ultimately flexible. Like, let's go back to the beginning. You were, like, right about here. What if we wanted it to be the case that you didn't draw, like, all four parts at different times, they happened all at one time? You can just change your program, and then they all draw at the same time. And so if we restart it, we'll see, like, a different pool picture. So this is what you're going to build, and then you're going to extend it. You want to see my extension? My extension was, Mike Cade bought this thing called a spirograph where we have like a circle inside of a circle and a pen. And I was like, I bet I could add that. So I built this spirograph extension where instead of just drawing lines, now it draws curves that are circles made out of circles. And if like you want more circles, you can just add another one in the code. Like that's fine. Here's another one. We'll make it a little bit smaller. And you get a different picture. Maybe you should do it like that. What is this weird picture? Well, this is what you get when you have these three circles spinning in this particular way. And then I thought, could you draw something even more interesting than just like a spiral? Could you draw any kind of curve? And then I realized, yeah, you probably could. If you just took a curve that you wanted to draw, like how about the Cal logo, I'll bet you can find some circles that draw that, and then you can just let them go. And there's just a bunch of circles spinning around, but they spin around in such a way that they draw whatever you told them to draw. That was my extension of the project. You're going to pick your own artistic extension of the project. You're going to build a web app. This is a big project, but you'll have a little bit of AI to help you out. And by the end of this course, this is the kind of thing you'll be able to do. So, glad you're here. I want to see you all right.
