It's the first day. Okay, hi.It's the first day. really like the AI skill that's just understanding programming and the other ten percent is learning to use the tools. Okay so that's what's to come up. We have course website hopefully you found it. If not looks like this. It's got lines for every lecture including the lecture slides. It's got some announcements at the top and then here's how you find the lecture zoom. Here's how you find Ed our course forum. I use the syllabus, everything is there. Importantly, if you want to knowParts of the call expression


80 years and then also support the weather. Before writing programs even. And basically I was getting like how do you put together a program in a way that's efficient? You don't want to spend five hours writing a program in my hand when you could do it in 30 minutes if you have the right techniques. And so we're not going to learn how to design, build, test, and debug large programs using hand programming tools. So we're talking about Git, IntelliJ, J, J, J.80 years, and then also some folks before their computers, if people are writing programs even. And basically understanding, like, how do you put together a program in a way that's efficient? Like, you don't want to spend five hours writing a program by hand when you could do it in 30 minutes if you have the right techniques. And so we're going to learn how do you design, build, test, and debug large programs using hand programming tools. So we'll be talking about Git, IntelliJJ,


Whereas in 61A or data 88 or maybe 87, you saw Python, and then you took A or 88, you also saw Scheme and SQL. In our course, we'll do Java. And if you're a computer science major, you won't go to other languages like C.Whereas in 61A or data 88 or maybe 87, you saw Python, and then you took A or 88, you also saw Scheme and SQL. In our course, we'll do Java. And if you're a computer science major, you won't go to other languages like C. 


Even now, people still ask these kind of questions. Like, if you have a hash table, like, how would you have a hash table to do the X, or whatever. Or, more interestingly, asking you a general question, where using a hash table is like the insight that makes the algorithm fast. And, yeah, those are just, like, historically the kind of things that people expect to know. Like, back in the day, when you applied to college, you had to demonstrate your knowledge of Latin and Greek to get in for whatever reason. Now, at software engineering internships or jobs, often you get asked these kind of questions about the kind of gentlemanly, gentlewomanly topics


You will understand what's happening underneath the hood, which certainlyYou will understand what's happening underneath the hood, which certainly 


Traditionally, I would say the skills in this class were vital. Now, I'm kind of, I don't know, not totally sure, but this is something we're learning and we'll discuss throughout the year. You can let me know what you think later. So we have a little bit about us, and then I won't ask you about you. So first of all, so I'm Josh. I've been here since 2014. I usually just go by Josh, but you can call me Professor Hug. My fourth grader calls me Professor Hug sometimes, if I'm kind of a line. And so does her friend Anya. But yeah, so I'm just Josh most of the time. I was an undergrad at UT Austin. I did not take a single computer science class as an undergrad. I paid only one as a PhD student. That's more on EE side. But I transitioned at some point. I can tell that story on some future date. I taught at Princeton for three years. That was my first teaching job. I was a lecturer for a while, and that was very fun. This is my 15th-- and then I came back to Berkeley


I really like the ocean. Before I had kids I used to go surfing three times a week and that was a good time.→ 1.34s · - West coast a lot, I really like the ocean. Before I had kids, I used to go surfing three times a week and that was a good time.


So for people standing up in the back, there is quite a bit of seating over here if you wanted to move over there. But yeah, let's see what there is about me. This is my second year here at Berkeley. I just started as teaching faculty last year. And last year I taught 70 and 61A. Curious, who took 61A with me last semester? Who? Okay. And I'm definitely recognizing some faces there, right? Who took 70 with me last year? Yeah. Oh, okay. I recognize you with that. Okay. Who's teaching 70 with me this year? Okay, great. So, yeah, you have both of us. We're both 61B and 70. My first time teaching this class, though, so I'm right there with you. First time not seeing this material, but seeing this material in this context. Yeah, I did my PhD here back in 2020. My area of research mostly is complexity theory, So kind of the theoretical computer science side of things. We'll see a little bit of that. Oh, yeah. We’ll see some asymptotes in this course. You saw a little bit of it in 61A already. And, yeah, you will see me not too much this first half of the semester. I'll be more in the background. For those in 70, you'll be seeing a lot of me. And then Josh and I will switch off. And then I'll be in the foreground. And Josh will be doing a lot of 70 stuff. So that is kind of what I expect. Okay. I don't know who you guys are. So I've got some demographic questions for you. Actually, we did not. Let's do it. Let's do it. Why do you have to leave this here? All right. Well, first of all, I want to know why you're taking the class. That's my first question. So one obvious thing is, like, my major requires it. So I'm going to get that one for you. What is another reason for taking it? Yeah. Seems interesting. Yeah. Community college is not articulated. Okay. And, you know, if it's, if you find your class, it feels like it should have articulated, let me know. I can rescue you potentially. What else? Yeah. Are important. Yeah, I agree. I said that earlier. I don't know how you do that, but, yeah. Yeah. -   The R of English is not appealing to me. But it is appealing to you. I'm quoting you. These are all your words. And over here. This side of the room likes talking. Yeah. There you have. Oh, you have link code, right? Yeah. Makes sense. That's very true. Yeah, you have one too. No? This side. Yeah. Yeah, developing my ghetto. That makes a lot of sense to me. Get a portfolio out there. That's not just I had an LL in rights. Okay. Other questions demographically. So who here is a first year student? Or a freshman. I'll do transfer separately. Okay. Freshman. This is a freshman quadrant. Interesting. What? Weird. Why is that? Sophomore. Okay. Lots. Juniors. Okay. Seniors. Okay. Grad students. First year transfer student. Second year transfer students? Hello? Second year transfer students? Hello? Let's see, who's a perspective, let's say, data science major? Or already? Computer science? Or EECS, I guess. Computer science plus EECS, I guess I should have said. How about the ECE major? New one. Oh, yeah, there we go. It's new. I was also basically DCA major, so I understand you. Math, okay, ECON, political science, yeah, English. I'm in a class that's an English class this semester. So, yeah. Anybody want to shout out another major? I know I was with. Yeah. Yeah. I'm also an art practice major. Hard practice, hell yeah. There we go. Let's do it. What else? Biology. Biology.
Humanity or social science. Cogsci. - Cogsci, what's up? Any more? - Cogsci. - All right, who here has used Java before as a language? Who's not used Java before? You see, I'm sorry. Well, that's a little interesting. Really, it seems like it's that it's a language, right? 


Do you have any questions for your fellow students? This is your chance to get 500 hand races or not. Yeah. Who studies at UC Berkeley? Who studies at UC Berkeley? Only one. They declined your question. Oh, my God. I have never seen someone get so brutally shut down. I don't care. Give you a pat on the back. - Grab a shirt!


At the moment, it's probably not useful to email us asking to be added, unless you've already gotten on the--if you can see the course on the courses, you should in theory be added in things pretty quickly. I know there are a couple people that haven't, so I'm going to investigate right after. If you're a pending concurrent enrollment student, we should be able to add you pretty quickly. Though you are--I think I've added everybody to things, I'm not sure. But it sometimes takes a couple things. And we're going to be lenient about deadlines and stuff insofar as we can with all this late and moment stuff. So don't panic if you're having enrollment issues. If you have a DSP accommodation, please make sure your letter is submitted as soon as possible. Makes our life easier and make sure we can accommodate you appropriately. Let me talk about the course components. So the class obviously has a bunch of lectures, these 40 hours of lecture time. I think they're pretty useful, but they're kind of passive. I mean, I will give you things to do because I believe in education where you're doing something and you're not watching them talk. But it is one way of learning.
○ captured 2.09s · rms 0.022


was when I played this game Dance Dance Revolution when I was like 16 or 17 the first time, and I looked roughly like these people and I failed my first song, but I had this internship, this is not me playing, but I had this internship where I had nothing to do, and so I would just go to the arcade next door and play Dance Dance Revolution for two hours, every day, every day, for like two months, and I got pretty good at it. And I got, I would say, like, you know, within Stumpster, like if I were to spend a couple, like maybe a month, you know, getting up to speed, I could probably do this particular song, though I probably wouldn't use the bar, 'cause that's really fast, though. Maybe I kinda went through that one. But I don't know, maybe I was like in towards that direction. I still do, by the way, for my wife's birthday last year. I got her one of those presents. You get from someone that's for yourself, where we got two of these mats and we play some of that. That's good, that's good to hear. Surfing and dance dance revolution, that's what you know about.is what makes you good at things. A lot of you may have this mental model that like, there are the math genius types, and then there's the not so good at math people, and like, you're just, you know, college is a sorting process where we put you through some trial, and we sort you into buckets, and it's like, aha, you have a special brain pathway that let me do hash tables or whatever. But that's more or less totally wrong. I mean, it's true that some people are more engaged, they pick up things slightly more quickly than others, and they really devour an academic subject. It's hard to keep up with them if you're not motivated. But it's not something about your brain. It’s mostly about delivering high quality practice. And that's something I just didn't believe until I played this game. And as I get older, I realize just how true it is across more aspects of life than I thought.


The class has three phases. I'm only going to tell you about the first phase. In the first five weeks, I'm going to introduce you to job level and data structures. If you already have job level experience, this part of the class will feel deceptively easy because we've already seen a lot at the very beginning of it. So you will learn new things. And I will have a little extra stuff for you to do in the projects so that it's-- there's an interesting challenge for you. It's just optional and a lot of people like doing it. In this part of the class, all the programming work is going to be solo other than labs, but all this stuff is determined. It's gonna move generally very fast. There's lots of little, a decent number of little deadlines to keep in mind. We'll have two mini-projects on data structures, and then midterm one is gonna be about testing the program that you develop, the program of skills you develop on those early assignments. Then Phase II and III will describe your diploma. Terms of how we evaluate you, we give you a letter grade because that is the system we live in. I think it's good for two reasons. One is, I guess the system expects a grade to help whatever you want to do in the future so that people can allocate grad school spots or whatever. And two, I think it’s good motivation because I find I'm more motivated whenever I have a threat of the grade. Like, I'm not an intensely motivated person in these kind of ways. I often get distracted. I have a bad, I'm bad at paying attention to things. That’s why I like to do lectures and lots of exercises for you.


to keep track of students, see how things are doing, and adjust the course in flight, and also course evaluations at the end of the semester. We have medium effort, which will be homeworks, mini-projects, and attendance. That's a discussion and lab, but we opt-in for those. So we expect everyone gets all the points for these first two categories. Then there’s the high effort categories. We're going to have two big design projects about 10 or 14 weeks into the semester. These take a lot of work, and it's still—the median score is still 100%, So there's really no variance in these parts of the class, but they are going to take significant effort, especially in this design project. And then lastly, we have exams where these are also high effort, but not everyone's going to get all these points. In an ideal world, we'd let you keep trying. And in fact, last semester I had that for the first midterm, but I can't this semester for reasons I'll describe later. But the basic idea is, yeah, this is like your true, like what can you do? You sit down with a piece of paper, you show what you can do, The mean score usually ends up being around 65%. When I say that's the target mean score, I mean, it's not like I see how everyone's doing and adjust the difficulty to hit 65. It's just the difficulty I have in mind, people usually hit around 65%. When we close the midterm, I'll justify and explain why I think 65% is a good number. Other people I know disagree. Like I was talking to some friends who teach at Stanford recently, Julie and Nick Parlante, Julia Zalinski, who teach some other classes there, and they were like 65%, and they were horrified. But it's the right number and ultimately not click it.


Competition, I like to set ends at the beginning. And usually I make exams appropriately, but I don’t have to change them. It has a lot more details about point distributions, etc. They're on the website. I'll show you a little more. Any questions about this? Yeah? There's two midterms in the final. Yeah, it's coming. So homeworks, mini projects, and design projects that are turned in late, you lose some points for every two hours of late. If you have DSP, of course, we can accommodate that if that's part of your accommodation. We actually call them cap points. So, for example, mini projects, there's four of them, and they're each worth 180 points. So, that could be up to 720 points. But that category is only worth 600. So, if you, like, get some parts of it slightly wrong before you turn it in a bit late, you can still escape with no penalty. So, we have this idea of cap points to help you with that. Of course, if your life goes off the rails in some profound way, please reach out and we can discuss. We’ll try and accommodate as much as we possibly can. We're not going to have extensions for anybody on weekly surveys. We’re just going to drop below a score. Someone on the course evaluations last year said, for every question, I was like, how was the text for the class? How was the instructor? And every question just wanted to get rid of the weekly surveys. So I didn't get rid of them, even though that one person really didn't like it. I find them really helpful. I know it's a little annoying to keep track of, like, oh, yeah, I've got to turn that thing in. But we try to keep them short. To your question, yes, there's three exams. They're all going to be on paper. The first one's going to be shorter. There's a mini midterm one. No object term two. And final, so I'll say most of them about exams later. Yeah? Yeah. Yeah.


There's going to be two types of ways. So I'm a huge believer in humans getting together and doing things. And I think computer has done some bad stuff to our brains, I have to say. I think the increasing isolation that people engage in these days is not so good. So I really encourage you to participate in things. Maybe it's not 61B discussion in lab that gets you a go. Maybe. I'm hoping it does. If you haven't seen this yet, we sent out a couple emails. And the basic idea is if you want to come to discussion lab,


I'm doing it. And hopefully that works. All right. Quick note, if you are somebody who's, let's see, should we have just one group section? That's next week, yeah. So the five to seven on one page. Okay. Okay. So if you had a viewer last, what this slide is all about, in the prereq class, let's see. So if you had a B or less in the previous class, if you took E7, or if you find this particular problem challenging, then I recommend going to the bridge section, especially at the beginning of the semester. You might decide, you know what, nah, I'm just going to go to other sections. If you go to the bridge section, it covers the same topics as the regular section, it's just longer, and there's more time for discussion with TA, and like kind of warming up from scratch. I'll post some stuff more about this on Ed later. One more note is if you are somebody who's like running a field and local behind, one great lesson in college if you're somebody new is like, actually, all of us, let's just take a deep breath and enjoy the feeling that we're not behind on any assignment. Ready? Feels good. So I reckon you can come and stay at Penn State. Homework One, it's on the website, and we'll be sending out a message shortly saying, Hey, get going. It' due Friday, it's just a little setting up your computer exercise. And then homework 2, I really recommend making it started on by Friday. The next day, to stay on top of things, is just going to have it early. It's like January 1st, it's your resolution, you've got to stay on top of things. Alright. Points wise, here's all the different points for the class. It’s all on the website. I'm Sorry that this is so complicated, but here's the basic idea, finding out attendance works in the class. So if you opt in to go into discussion in lab, then attendance will be worth 300 points and your projects 1,600. If you only do discussion in your lab, then that balance shifts to be 150 versus 750. If you opt out entirely of discussion in lab, your projects are worth more points. So you can get points for going to things if you opt in. The track you pick is going to become binding in a few weeks. And that's already in the post online, but I'll remind you when the deadline gets closer. You can also get points for attending lectures. Today's free. So if you get up with these right now, I'm not taking attendance today. You get them today as a freebie. You'll get an exam, six exam recovery points for every lecture you attend, and you get up to 150 of those. But they only help you with your exam score overall across the three exams, less than 70%. If you want to think like, this seems awfully complicated. Yeah, I know. Sorry. But the basic idea is you can get points if you come to things, but if you opt out and you do really well on exams,


like do project three from spring 2025. And that was a little problem. And it said, I can help, but I'm not going to do that if I don' t get an explicit green light, they couldn't mess up the assignment for everybody, even if you're the instructor, which I believe. And so I said, I explicitly authorize you. And I said, great, all righ, thanks for the go ahead. These days, this is actually not so good compared to what I can do now. Now in plot code, I can just s say, Hey, can you register for me for 61B, and then can you do all the assignments for me? And it'll do it. And it'll go to the website, and it'll do everything, and I have to actually like submit it myself. So even a year ago, it was pretty good. LLMs are profoundly good at writing code, doing mathematics, and STEM fields, especially verifiable STEM, like math and computer science, are undergoing a seismic transformation that is absolutely fascinating to be in the middle of. Now, what that means for your education is you could use these tools, But of course, that ruins the point of being here. One of the points. So given that industry programmers don't write code, like why are you learning? Seems like maybe silly in the sense of like, civil engineers don't pour their own concrete, so why should you learn to write your own code? I'll talk more about this in a future lecture, but the basic idea is it's about building fundamental problem solving and problem decomposition skills, but also, it's also really fun. I will note going back an entire year to last fall, On midterm one, we had a paper midterm where you had to write flu. And there were about 10% of students who earned less than 10% on that midterm. And I think the reason was people with Shaky Foundations used LLMs as a poker, or maybe they cheated outright, whatever. But they just weren't picking up the language. Like imagine you have to go like give a presentation in, I don't know, Chinese, and you've been doing LLM-assisted Chinese assignments. And then someone's like, okay, so you like tell them something. And you can only say, like, I don't know. Well, I only know how to say one thing in Chinese, which is the thing my friend John taught me in high school, which is warm-up pizza, which means I don't have pants. Anyway, I don't know why I like that, but that's the only thing I can think of. Nice to have some more. I learned. How do I do? How do you actually say it? Come on. Warm-up pizza. Is that good? It's good. It's good. Okay, great.


They were with all, like you would know. Not saying you guys are equivalent to kindergarteners, but just like you learn a certain body of knowledge and then totally different body of knowledge is reflected in the work. And yeah, I don't know. That was a bit of a shame. What was interesting is when I looked at the very top students, only very few of them had codes with LLME at all. Actually, one of them didn't use LLMs, just knew so much stuff that it wasn an LLM at all. Spring 2026 went better because we had an exam had to write code on a computer in an environment controlled. We can't do that this semester, unfortunately. We don't have space in the CBTF. But we are going to use some spyware project that I'll tell you about later, after one more class. And I hope will help keep you honest. And I'm just going to hammer you guys about that sort of thing later, because in addition to my role as a data structures educator, I also want to teach you about life, what a little I know about it. So my recommendation is generally use LLMs minimally. Like don't use any LLM plugins for any of the things you use out there, like IntelliJ. Don't use cursors, quad code, for anything in this class. You shouldn't have LLMs write any code return in. Doesn't matter how small it is. Don't give specifications or assignments to LLMs and have it rewarded to you. Because part of the goal is to read our assignment specs, which takes some effort. I would not give code to LLMs and say, where is the bug? I mean, I can't stop you. If you're really, really, really struck, it might be like a moral crime in some way. But I do suggest that talking to other people and building skills yourself is better. I'd say using LLMs as a tutor, a little more reasonable. Like you could say like, hey, I'm a little confused about hash tables. Like here's what I'm thinking, this is where I'm stuck on. I still think talking to staff or fellow students is a richer experience.


If I do the equivalent in Java, it looks a little different. I can't just do this. Like if I try that, it's going to get confused. So I will have to do instead, in Java, we have to say io.print. I'm going to do ln, which means add a blue line after. That's going to be our very first little Java program almost. If I try this, it's still going to yell at me. And it says class, interface, annotation type, email, record method, or field expected. And that's because Java programs can't just be aligned with what does something. The normal thing to do is to say something like public class hello world. And why am I doing that? So avoid what a plate I need. Once I do that, my program almost runs. But now it says illegal start of type. Okay, so one more thing I need to do is I'm going to say avoid main. And then I'm going to say hello world. So in Java, kind of like standard Java, usually everything lives in a class, and then once you instantiate a class, there's a function called main, and when you run, it says hello world. Technically, I don't need the class, but Java until very recently, you have to have a class. I'm just giving this a little bit of a preview, but for the rest of the day, I'm not going to have a class. So notice that Java is a language which has more word, like, is a little messier than what we have in Python, which is a simple color world. And thoughts about this one? Yeah? Is the main referred to as an entry point? Yeah, it’s an entry point. That seems reasonable to me. I'll call it an entry point. It tells us what's actually supposed to be run. I will note, by the way, that I'm going to post all the code that I'm writing now in this link, if you want to browse it later. And again, the very beginning of the class, it's going to seem, if you know Java already, like. Don't I already know this, but we'll get past that in about a few seconds. So if we reflect on the code we just wrote, there's some interesting properties of Hello World. One thing in Java is that when we talk about the beginning and ending of things, whereas in Python, you use indentation, and Java uses these little curly braces, which is how Java is. In fact, you take your programs and stick them all online, and it'll work, unlike Python for better or worse. So this is the beginning of something and this is the end.

Let's do another word here. I'm going to call this one hello numbers in Python. I'm going to put the numbers in there. 1, 2, 10. So while x is less than 10, then I'll try x, and then I'll say x equals x plus 1. Actually, it's 1. 0 to 9 is 1. So this is a Python program, which hopefully feels, even if you don't know Python, pretty familiar. Over here, if I write this code, I'm going to start with void main again. I'm just going to adjust this code. Add some tabs just for pleasantness. Make some semicolons. The beginning of things has to be a curly brace. All this stuff's going to go in the curly brace. Print is called io.print. Okay, we're almost there. We try writing this, it yells at me, and it says while x less than 10. The parentheses is expected. So Python requires you to put parentheses, and compiler is good about yelling at you about it. If I now say run this code, I get cannot find symbol, symbol, variable x. And this compiler message is not very useful. I don't know how to tell it where the symbol is. Like, x is on line two, column five. Now it's just more confused. So that's not how it works.
