and we can avoid this late penalty in general, but usually the idea is. Another thing I'd like you to do is fill out the survey, coming Monday. I'll remind you on Monday. So before we do that, I want to get to make a philosophy about why you're bothering to become elected. Because you have to like, beading whatever you were doing. you come here and listen to me talk about stuff. And answer some questions. So like, what's the point? My father's like, is there a recording? Give me your time. Yeah. Human interaction is good for you. Human interaction is good for you. I'm a big fan of that. Also, potion that's not related to the that's just a light tip. What else? Give me some more, yeah. Ask me questions. Say, yeah, right. It goes like, you learn stuff, it's fun. It's a great thing. Yeah. I'm going to log in and just watch I totally agree. I like it. It's all the time. Comprehension. Some people       comment about    being in university. You can't pause the interview. But-- Better learning environment. learning environment. Better learning environment. Yeah.. Yeah. I don't know. Yeah. Well, walking before class exercise, right? Yeah. Get some exercise and walk around. I like a white skin in campus. I love it. It's like 10 minutes long. It's like perfect. Back to the middle of it. You guys got thoughts. Why are you doing this? Oh yeah, go ahead. I'll make my last one. - To see Joshua hug in person. - To see Joshua hug in person. I see Joshua hug in person. you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I that much. I guess maybe there's got to be some small number of days where I don't see. Since I have pretty short peer care this semester, I don't even have to look at help. All right, so I agree with these many things. I like coming to lecture. You know, when I was an undergrad, I had this funny thing where I cannot pay attention to people talking to save my life. so bad at it, especially in the lecture environment. There's no social pressure, and I want to be sitting there thinking about I don't know what Like yesterday, our first grade teacher was presenting about first grade and was like enumerating way too many details for me. So I started thinking like, what is the longest sequence of characters going left to right on a keyboard you can come up with that's alphabetical. And I was like, oh, see, like I needed something to do. I don't know what it is about my brain. Like the chain is That's what I came up with. what I was doing. OK? So that's where I come from. I'm an easily distracted person, yet I went to lecture because it helps me like, I have an excuse to show up. How do I pay attention lecture. I take notes, but I never look at the notes. My advice-- I mean, many of you are sophomores, but my advice is I don't like taking notes on devices, because then I'm too tempted to write exactly what's said. I like writing either on paper or on an iPad, and I take notes, and then I literally never look at them again. And the whole point of the notes for me is to pay attention and have to digest it a little, But I never look at the notes again because someone's already written a textbook for me or whatever. So that's just my thoughts. So I like to come to lectures, that I'm forced to be there, and I take notes so that I can pay attention because my brain is broken and I can't listen to me anymore. So with that in mind, let's talk about one more thing. If it is not enough– these little motivations are not enough. Another reason you may come is because we'll give exam recovery points. And the basic idea is that– better you do on exams, the less the exam recovery points matter. The idea is like, I don't want to force you to be here, but I want to give you some incentive. But if you could really walk in and not be here, that's fine. And you won't lose any points. So the basic idea is that like for every-- if you literally get on all the exams, which is very bad. You probably won't pass. But you will get some exam recovery points. each one will count to one point. If you got 35% on paper exams, each exam will cover your points worth half a point. Once you hit 70%, they don't count anymore. Sorry. And the target mean is around 65%. I will note that some of the policies are still kind of shifting around, specifically the number of homeworks. finalize those soon. I don't think it will affect your decision to be able to adapt to that. questions about this stuff? All right. Yeah. Sorry, my policies are complicated, but you can ask an LLL of But another note, if you're watching this recording, want to mention that anytime that I'm writing code, as I'm working, going to do a lot of life coding in the first eight lectures and nine lectures. I would pause and try and think about what I'm going to do next. And I think that's a good thing to speculate. How's the gun feel, especially as we get into the later lectures, like the next one. This one maybe is a little more mysterious, but it leads to the habit. it. - All right, cool. All right, so today we're going to be talking about defining classes. Again, if you are someone who's seen Java before, these first two lectures are basically all stuff you've seen before. I hope it's still valuable and interesting. In the next lecture, will start seeing new stuff, even if you're a drawback. So first, I'm going to talk about classes. And here I'm talking to a very white writer, You take an E7, you may not know what a class is at all. If you take an APSAS, everything I do today is going to be something you've seen before. So let's talk. about it. So just like in Java, Python, it you the ability to define types for classes. So for example, in Python, I can create a class called DOM. I can give it a method called make noise. can create dogs, and then I can call "make noise.” I'm going to go through this process. and basically write this code here a little more interactively than just having one slide to show you that classes in Java are a thing that exists. So I'm going to be using IntelliJ here. Yes, that's a little dim. I'm going to bring it on. Justin, like I should have done that last time. do a cozy lighting. Adjusting the front of the stage. - All right. I still feel like it's a washout. I don't like it. Oh, that's a the one. Yeah. OK, I like this. What do you guys like at this? I'll do it just for a short time. It looks really cool. for micro-special products. I guess. like a real performance. - Oh, okay, and I got Wisconsin on the wall. All right, thank you, operator. So I'm going to run a class called Dog hog in the dark." Don't worry too much about the fact that it says package up here, That's just because I have multiple folders with code the metallurgy will yell at me otherwise. Maybe I'll talk about it in a future lecture. But I'm like, I get fast I declare that there exists a class called dog. And then whenever we have classes, we'll also say what attributes have. Let's list off. the properties of the ball. OK? It's just size. That's it. Now that's all I'm going to have. you could add like number of legs, you know, that sort of thing. I'm not going to. They're only going to have a size. And then if you've done this sort of programming and Python before, the way you would do it, again, I don't assume you know Python. I know some of you like, only have seen C or whatever. But Python is a language that many people in this class have seen some using it as a starting point. But if you've seen John Mercy++, you don't need. But often in Python, you would write some method that looks something like this. You might do something like self. size, whatever. So that's something I want to do in Java. going to write the equivalent of this, which is called a constructor, by simply saying dog. And then I'll say hint s. And then I will just say equals s. There's a bit of a difference here, though, because they don't say self dot size, I just say size equals f, and that's just the job of semantics. you don't have to say whose size, it's just obvious by context, you're referring to the current size. you want to, you can say this.size, and that does the exact same thing. you don't have to have this. And one difference is in Python, you have to actually like, include in the list of arguments, but you don't have to do it. in Java. This is all you do. So that's what a constructor looks like in Java. And I'll take questions in a second. And then lastly, we could add methods that do things. Like I can have a method called make noise. And then we could do something like if the size is small, then whatever else. we'll do more than that in a second. But I won't do it again. All right, so any questions about, class creation. yeah. Yeah. Well, what's the reason why you use void? The reason that you use void is when you have a method that doesn't do anything. so like void main, or doesn't return anything i meant today uh so void main doesn't return anything. And we'll come to that in a bit. a bit. Yeah? Why'd you pull your. So this isn't actually a method. This is not a method. this is a constructor. It says how to make dogs. And in many cases, you give it a size, and when the dog is born, you whisper to it and you say, you shall be eight-sizing this Oh, it's so bright. Okay. All right. So that's roughly what things will look like. Actually, I'm going to add a. make noise method to match the slide. So if I do void make noise, then I can do, like, for example, io.pricline work. And once I've done that, I'll have a dog. If I create a dog, I can make it. That's so glaring. OK. Now, I want to note that not all dogs in the world are dogs. Here's a couple of dogs that I've been showing in this classroom a decade. Now here is one dog, which I really like the sound of. - - - - That sounds good. No, I have to sit down you can watch more of it. If you ever get a dog like that, never let him go. All right, here's another dog. This is annoyingdog.com. a film. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. - I have a couple of The reason I showed you students two videos is because we write code to represent things in the world. often not literally gone, but all kinds of things, like bank accounts, whatever else. And so if you go to code, I want to basically capture that. Like I want to make my dog have behavior that depends on its size. So we can, for example, say, if your size, if my size, if you think of it, I'm going to write this just for the moment, make it clear. If my size is less than 10, I'll do that yapping type noise. Let's say here the size is… than 30, I think that's what I do on the slide. It'll work. And then otherwise, I will sonorously oh, I can't do it. I don't have that kind of voice. Sorry. One day, though, I always think that's the one thing I wish I could do like Freddie Mercury or like Prince Lull singing. Anybody here does voice lessons for the imperative singing, Hook me up, I'm ready. But yeah, that snake noise method will now have a dog that makes noise proportional to its size. for example, if I now make a method that's main in here, and I say, dog, d, and I'm going to show this in a bit, but the way you make a particular dog in Java is using this new keyword. If I make a dog that's 1,000 size and then I say dogs are make noise, then it will do something nice for us. Hello. Why can't I run it? This happened to be last year. Okay? I don't know why. Tell me, Jay. Don't worry about the fact that I did that. I don't know why I literally did this backstage right before and it didn't want the static. And the reason-- Java 25 introduced some kind of more condensed syntax, and I'll talk about this in a little bit. I think it should work just fine it and says void main. I'm adding static because I know that it'll work. We’ll talk about that in a bit. But when I run this method, you see I get a root. If I do five instead, I get I'll take questions in a sec. So we just made this class. So if we compare the Python side to the Java side. here. I don't know, like what are some things you notice that are different between the Python universe and the job that you've done. I think things can be a big fun. Yeah.. Yeah, when you make a dog a child, you have to use this word noobs. In Python, you don’t have to do that. just say, Maya, you're a dog. You have to explicitly say it. So it seems like you have the path the attribute into the constructor? In both cases, we passed the attribute into the constructor, though, right? So in this case, it goes into size. In this case, it goes into x. Yeah, kind of. You don't have to pass in self to the method. Yeah, you never have to say self and job. And there is a difference between what I wrote in IntelliJ and what you're seeing here. be right, don't say this, and it'll work fine. Any other things that seem interesting to me? Yeah. I don't know if it's. asked, but in Yeah, that goes on. And actually, that's important. If I were to do size here. This one actually went into some trouble. Here this code semantically if they're both called size, this actually does nothing. It just takes size and assigns it to itself. You can get around this by saying this dot size equal size. And the way to think about this in terms of 61 environment diagrams is that, in fact, I can just run the debugger. I think you can see it. Let's try. That's fine, I guess. OK, you run this code, in the environment diagram world, there's like, size, and then there's this dot size, and they're two separate variables. So when you do this assignment, it's saying take this value and copy it two. This is the size. It's a little beyond the scope of our day, but since you noticed it I don't raise that point. So what I would typically do in lecture is avoid issue entirely by not having these names collide. The word people use for this sometimes a shadowing, where there's like two things called size. One of them is the local variable size, and one of this instance variable size. But I don't want to bog you down at any size, especially up here in the class. Anything else on this point or difference in staff? The instance variable is outside the-- Yeah. There's a very interesting thing, which is that the instance variable is explicitly mentioned here. Like, whenever we declare a Java– Java class, we have to say where the variable– we specify every property that a dog has we have a special region of specification of properties. In Python, you don’t have that. fact, you can add more properties of an object anytime you want. Whereas in Java, the rules are very strict. And in general, you should think of Java as a strict language, like the list of properties is fixed. you can't change their Everything has to be declared before you use it. Python is more freemium. Yeah. Any questions? Say yeah. Why is it using? Oh, why am I using the main function here. Where else would I put it? What do you have in mind? Like putting it outside of the glass entirely? It's. Oh, right, yeah, yep. So in Java, you can never have code that just sits out here because the way that Java works is when you run Java code, it will find the function called main and run it, if you add code outside, it's orphaned and doesn’t have any place to live. So you can't do this, for example. Like, it won't know what that means. Java, the way you run a Java program is it basically looks at the file and says, is there something called name? If so, that's the thing to run, if that makes sense. Yeah. Other thoughts, yeah. Well, how can people report all that as a way that they feel right about that? We'll talk about imports at some future time. Yeah, not for that. There's too many subtleties. Yeah. Can you just use weight outside the class? Yeah. until Java 25, you could not. I don't think it'll work in this particular context, because this is a package, If we were not using packages, then it will work. But these are rules that are not important for you. And there's an interesting thing still like, I thought that was something. And the question about why did I put the word static here. I know. I'll let you know later. It's so funny. It just slightly happened to me last time. I did it when it happened again. Tried it backstage. So it goes. All right. Now I'm going to drop some terminology on you. This is not the most exciting stuff. But in a class, up at the very top of any class, you have your set of instance variables. When you instantiate or create a dog, every instance is going to have exactly these properties and only these properties. You can have as many instance variables as you want. a constructor, which is similar to a method and then it’s like parameters, it does But what it ultimately does is it tells you how to create a dog. So you can imagine that's like in a simply line the dog is about to be born. A size variable appears that's initially like undefined or set to zero. And then that size variable that we passed in is S gets slotted in. But it could be a more complicated thing, and it will be a more complicated thing then lastly, we have your instance method. An instance method is different from what you might have seen in Python, which you might call class method. It means it's a specific dog does this thing. So if my size is less than 10, do this. If my size is less than 30, do this. otherwise well. Now a function– this is just terminology and programming, a function that's part of a class is often called a method. And in Java, because unless you're doing sort of really wacky small files, almost every function is going to be part of a class. In Java, the words method and function are nearly interchangeable, because almost all the code you ever write are going to be inside of the class. But just be aware that like, okay, Yeah, you take a function you put inside of the class. So a method, this is therefore called an instance method. We'll see that in Java there’s another kind of method called a static method that I alluded to a moment ago, which you may have heard of as a, it's similar to a class method in also are static methods. So what you should think about classes as doing is they give you a blueprint for instances of that class, least for classes that can be instantiated. When you instantiate class that you made a dog, we sometimes call that dog a dog object. And what the doc.jubble file basically tells you is it says all dark objects are this way. They have a size, and they can make And they can't do anything else, and they can always do those things, and always have exactly those properties. So unlike Python, where you could later take a dog give it a name, even if most dogs don't have names, in Java it will cannot say, I made a huge dog that's 150. I set it size to five, I can change it size later. That's definitely allowed. Once I try to say to that dog, tell that dog then the universe explodes. Or in fact, it doesn't explode because it won't even compile. That's sort of the wild thing about Java. You avoid the trouble by not even letting it go around in the first place. One more little bit in terms of, actually, any questions about this so far. I know this is not the most exciting stuff, but I feel like I should say it at League One. I try to not say too many things like this, but occasionally definitions are important. One thing I'm actually interrupting myself to mention is that we do have a textbook if you want to read along. It is largely like the content from lecture. And one of the nice things about Quod is I started– have a folder where I have like basically N361B thing all together. And I can ask nice questions like, is there anything in the textbook that's of sync with the slides and then I can fix it. As I noted before, none of this textbook as LLM generated because I don't believe in you writing reading anything that's LLM generated, but I am using an LN flagging that I shouldn't fix. All right. Another thing terminology. so more words– a bunch of different processes occurring whenever we're working with instantiation and variables. So for example, in this main function here. You notice it says string rx. That's just because pre-joptify we kind of say that. Sorry, I deleted it because it's just going to be confusing. So on this first line, when I say dog, small dog, that one line of code, it's declaring a variable called small dog, there's no actual dog yet. It's like a house where a small dog could live, it's not there yet. When I do the new dog 20, that dog is instantiated, now there's a dog object, but we don't do anything. This line of code actually does both processes. we say new dog five, so it's instantiated. And then we assign it. put it in the house. We could think of assignment as putting the dog in his house. Here's a line which we do declaration. So we say huge dog exists. Inst initiation, doing the dog and an assignment. And then lastly, we have this word invocation. So when we have an object, and we invoke one of its methods, we use the term invoke. then anytime you see a dot, that's going to usually mean like a hierarchy. So for example, make noise is part of the huge dog often. Any questions about this stuff? This is the part where I'm thinking about keyboard ladders. Yeah. So then if you just wanted like the most simple code you could then you just need the first one and then like the fifth one? Yeah, I guess the simplest simplest line of code would be like dog huge dog equals new dog 150. So do it all in one line most of the time. Yep. - So, was that the previous slide. If I include something that's not in the blueprints, oh, right. Let's say you have a class and you add a variable, like I add number of legs, I don't use it anywhere. It'll run just fine, and the number of legs will default to zero. And we'll talk about that in lecture three, because those defaults are somewhat important. In that language, not that's it. Tomorrow will you have that. Yeah, yeah, sorry. One more. New Doc 20, What's the point? Pedagogy, But it doesn't do anything. You wouldn’t want to do that. In fact, if you create a dog and then don't use it, You know what happens to it? Anybody know? It gets put into the garbage collector. I'll tell you more about that later. Sorry. So the dog will get instantiated, and then Jabba will realize no one's using this dog and then kaboom. But I love your day. You're not ready to touch things. All right. Let's talk about static versus instance members of a class. So earlier we had this main method in the dog class itself. But you can create other code that uses the dog class. And this is pretty common. There's a thing called lists in Java, and you can make your own code use as lists. So let's show that if we have a class called Dog Investigator, and we're going to go back to cool lighting mode. Maybe I'll do half this time. Oh, we're still in half. Let’s go dark for Great. For me, I don't know. So here we're going to have a void theme. mysteriously, it's fine in the last stack. And then I'll show you that I can say dog d equals new dog 500, and then d.makeNoise. And yeah, you don't have to have a main method in dog itself, another class can use it just fine. If I do that, we get our root. We change it to 10, 15, will get. OK. All right. Now unlike Python, interestingly, you don't need to import code from other files. So in Python, if I want to use something, I have to like actually literally say important. in dropping you don't need to do that. What it'll do is it’ll automatically scan from a list of allowed folders, including the current folder, And it will see if that class exists, If so, you don't need to import it. That's also true of build-in stuff in Dropout, show you in a little while. Let's give an example using our building methods, let's add new abilities our dog class. We're going to make it so that a dog compare itself to another dog. So I'm going to actually just copy and paste this. And I want to make this work. I just want to use the slides. So I want to make this code work. problem right now, if we look here, IntelliJ yells at us and it says, I can't resolve, I can't resolve the method in almost. So it can't resolve the method max dog and dog. So we're going to make it– thing we can make it in IntelliJ is using this keyboard shortcut. And I'm going to do that because this is a good habit, it, I think. There we go. So I'm going to create the method, And there it is. And now we just got to fill it out. I don't like dog Clifford. Like I'm using Clifford. know Clifford the big red dog? He's a large. Okay, but maybe the dog compared to is not solid, call this other dollar, And we're going to compare ourselves to the other God and return the bigger of them. That's going to be our goal. So what we're going to do is we're going to check our size. If other dog is bigger than me, Then, what should we return? We're supposed to return the larger of the dogs. So I'll say return the larger of the dog. What do we return here? Tell the dog. And if that's not true, what do we return? That's not quite right. This. Yeah, sounds like this. So that one, this is a case where I actually have to use this. The only choice here is this. I can't just say like return, and it's like, you must mean yourself. That doesn't work. And this particular risk is not necessary. You don't have to do that. Like if you admit this, Java realizes like the only science you could be talking about is your own, but I'm thinking that they're to be relatable. What this code will do then is when you ask this dog to compare itself to another, if the other dog's bigger, they'll say, or the sea of one, if you're a little bit bigger, your return is this. So I'll go back to the dog a dog investigate it or try running it? And who do we expect to be making noise? Do you expect Clifford or Little Bottom to get? Make a noise. Clifford. we should get enough room. Because clip room is above the brush. There you go. We could do it in the debugger, but I'm not. Any questions about this? Thank you. it know which main function to run, Well, IntelliJ, what it has is this little green arrow. whichever one I click is going to run that one. All right. so if I click this one, it will run dog investigator. If I switch it to dog here, then I click run, then it'll run the other main Yeah, so there's like a little selection here. Yeah. What's the difference if your dog will dodge equals your dog, and this little thing will do that. Oh, if I do that right there, that won't work because every variable in Java has to have a declared type. You always have to say, like, it seems like it should be obvious, right? but that's not how Java semantics are. You actually have to declare the variable formally. And the way you will do it in this class is to always say explicitly to type. There's another thing you can type that I will not teach Thank you. Slides. So this is just stuff I said out loud earlier. So those are the questions we had at. I'll note that it's also possible, maybe you don't like the idea just aesthetically, then any dog should have to judge itself against another dog. Like, I respect that. I think that’s a reasonable philosophical position. So what we can do is make it so that the dog class is instead of. the computer. So notice the difference. Before, we were saying, hey, little dog, you are Clifford. And that dog, you know, it's an aesthetic and sort of letting that dog judge itself against another dog, but perhaps the law dogs should be that no dog should judge itself against another. In that case, we could instead say, hey, dog claps, you do it. Let me show you how that works. here you can think of it as like the god of dogs is going to be the one doing the judges. Here I'm going to say static dog, max dog, And then I'm going to provide two dogs. Give me the first variable name for fun? What's the first dot? I heard F, I know that's not being said, but okay, now. - M? - Milo. - Milo, okay, you got that one with Milo. know, okay? You can tell me what you actually said earlier. In this case, when I say static, there is no specific dog doing the judging. The idea of dog is doing the judging. So we can't say like f.size is greater than this.size because there is no this. Back to the highlighted, I'll say, like, this doesn't make sense in a static context, right? This is like deep philosophical, like, you know, a worldview here that like, there is no specific dog. right? So in this case, I'd say something like if f dot size greater than myload.size, then we'll return f. Otherwise, we'll return myload. like this doesn't make sense. Like I could never say like I wrote a print line going to decline this dot size because there isn't a dog. And if I do that, that method now would be able to compare them. Now, why do it one way versus the other? there is no particular reason I'm just showing you that these are two possibilities. You can be judging yourself against the other dog, or you can be an impartial judge of two separate dogs, and you're just the idea of the dog. And I'll show you why static methods really, really make sense in some context, but here, I think either way is totally fine. Any questions? Yeah. So this is two functions with the same name, but this is not-- well, actually, yeah. Is it called overloading and one static and one non-static. Yeah, I guess so. I guess I'd call it. But there's a 2% chance I'm wrong. Everybody might be a separate name. One of them's. Any other thoughts? So public means nothing. Static means there is no this I'll make that remember. Static means there is no this. And the method must be invoked-- and this is the really interesting part by calling dog dot max dog. That's how you get this method. And then I'll say, just a quick note also, that public means nothing today. Sometimes I'm doing it, sometimes I'm not. Sorry. right. Yeah, same. So how do public is a more global society? if you want a reason for public, public means any class can use this function. And then not having it means only classes in the same package. Yeah? Last time you said-- you mentioned that now it's very explicit? Yeah. - It's not a big career, or - Yeah. - - So Java is very, very picky about ant versus string, yes. And you're saying it doesn't seem picky about stat or– I thought you had to actually write it for every single– Yeah, OK, yeah. But you're not part of it. here, every time I have a particular variable type, I'm having to say what the type is always. Ask me right after because I don't know if I can digest the question. Yeah. OK. All right. So basically, whenever you say a method is static, you're saying this method is invoked using the class and there just isn't this in that context. So I have a question for you, just to see if this all makes sense. This is going to be my attendance question today. So I'd like you to take a picture of this QR code, Or you can use another device and go to hubcode.com/hutcode. If you do not have a device, this will remain live for about, I don't know, 24 hours. And I want you to tell me what to be appropriate. and we have a class cell human where a ponderous static and consider as non-static seems appropriate. Let me know, or not. working. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. 10 because the human class doesn't have a method that's static that has a difficult answer. that will not work. The bottom one's kind of interesting. Technically speaking, this code will in Java, but I find it confusing that this is possible, because you're asking a specific instance to call ponder, but there is no specific instance this doing the boundary. So I would argue-- I mean, there's reasons that it's not a compile error. But I would argue that maybe this should have been a compile error modulo, sort of a corner case that I don't want to do it. So I think the top one, human document said inappropriate. This one, maybe debatable. and these two are perfectly fine. If you have other thoughts about that, you can post on Ed, but I will take questions right after. But I'm not going to answer it. alpha male right now. Okay, so just to summarize static versus non-static methods. So static methods, you would go through using the class say dog.makeNoise, for example, if it were called makenoise. That's what we had at the very beginning. Later, we made it into an instance method where it could– had a specific set of attributes. we invoke it using an instance name like Maya.makeNoise. you have a static method, you cannot access your instance variables because there is no you. There is no identity. We couldn't say this in here, wouldn't make sense. That's the basic difference. So why did they even exist though? I get it, like it makes some sense, but why would this be useful? Well, the reason is some classes not be, they wouldn't make sense to really instantiate. So for example, the round in the math class in Java is static. And the reason is it would be really weird if we’re instance method. If it were an instance method, you'd have to say math n equals say, "M, you rounded." It's a little strange. I mean, it would be fine. You could write the code for math that way, but it would just be awkward. Instead, by making it static, you have this glass that has a bunch of utility metals. So that's an example where it really, really makes sense. In the dog class, it a pure aesthetic concern? Like maybe you like the idea that the class should do it. You can think the idea of an instance should be. be fine. Yeah. - Yes. So the question was, could you put an attribute in the class itself? yeah, that also exists. So you can say, for example, all dogs you perfectly predicted this question, all dogs have the scientific name Canis numiliaris, so you could just stick that in class dog and say there's a static strain common to all dogs. I would say that if you do this, but you'll be very tempted in Project 5 especially. If you do this, you should access them using the class name, not an instance name, because it will avoid bad habits. I would say it's a bad idea to send someone like, Maya, what's your scientific name? you're kind of like, that's not really Maya's thing. I would say it's even worse to do something like Maya, binomim equals fox here. Which one is it? Fox? I don't know. Because it will then change all other dogs to have that scientific name. So what I will say is in the future– and I'll harp on this later it becomes tempting. I would really avoid static variables whose values change because you may confuse yourself. You'll get a bit complicated code. if you want to read more about that. code. All right. Lastly, though, can have a mix of static and non-static methods. That's totally fine. Or static and non-static numbers, and this is just my summary from what I was saying before. All right, I have two more things I want to wrap up. One is often, as you were saying, sometimes I was saying public, sometimes I wasn't. We'll talk about this a bit more in lecture three, but for now, it literally doesn't matter if you have public or not. You can put it in one. Next. Public static one needs the arms.-Rs. This is also just a quick note that before September 2025, there were a number of things that All Java code had to be in the class. You used system.out.println instead of io.println. And the main method had to literally say public static void main strain arts instead of just void main. This has changed. you look at old 61B stuff, it'll look like this. I don't really want to talk about it more, if you're curious this is what all that stuff those are just two things I want to mention briefly, because sometimes that would be sloppy and do it the old way, because that's how I did it for a long time, and do a little resource. It'll look like that. Follow-up there. Last thing I want to talk about is warm up to lecture three and give you the little bit of details that I want you to know before you do one more. meal. Let's talk about how you make lists, an old school job. OK? And we'll talk about new job later. So in a programming language, a list is an ordered sequence of objects, which you often have those to set a comma separated list between brackets, 369, 1450. Lists support a bunch of different operations. According to whatever people who came up with the programming in a language decided list should do. So for example, appending an item, retrieving an item, like getting item free, removing an item, all of those things often exist. and you can read about the idea of a list, in general, independent of any programming language, but in the context of programming here. Let me show you an example in Python, and of Java. So this is the Python version that creates a list that is empty, and then appends A, B, C. And this is what it's going to gonna look like in Java. And we're gonna build this in a sec, But before we do that, wanted to show you our destination, But I'm going to go in here and I'm going to make a new class. And we're going to go back in dark mode, hope you don't fall asleep, Since it's in But if you fall asleep, that's okay. Here we go. Dark list. time. All right, so in the list demo, I'm just going to create myself a main method. And I'm going to say list L equals new list at first. And then I'm going to say L dot– called add job So, again, now we're going to try and print this list and now we're going to fix all the problems that we have. So the first problem we have is that Java doesn't know what a list is by default, can't resolve symbol list, the issue is that List isn't actually called List. Its real name is java.util So we do Java dot util dot list L equals new Java dot you until us. We're closer. But that's a little annoying. There is a compilation error, and also who wants to read code that looks like it? So what I can also do is I can add an import statement. If I say import java.util.list, that means can now use the short name, and I don't have to keep saying JavaW until my list. So importing a Java is a little different. doesn't actually make something available, it just shortens the name. So by using import, we can use the shorter name. But importing isn't necessary to use the list. You could just do a job that might be doing a lot less everywhere. That's very unlike Python. It's not like Python, where importing does something like it actually makes something available. It's a very subtle difference, but just mentioning it. The next problem is you can't make a list. OK, it seems pretty bad. The reason is that lists are abstract, and that's something we'll talk about in a couple weeks. the idea is that a list, it's like an abstract notion, but we want a particular type of list. someone who took APCS, pick a type of list. I heard a realist, - And then I could say java.util.unrealist, because it doesn't know what that is. that's fine. But then I'm actually going to go up here and say, import Java that util but a realized I don't like all that stuff. Once I've done that, my code will work just fine. own one two. Okay. If you take the APCS, you may be thinking this looks weird. Well, that's because we were doing Java 4 lists. So if we look at this code, we compare the Python and the Java side of the universe. list, a variable of type list. We put an array list in it, and then we said 80. I will note, in case you're curious, if you would actually just say a realist over here. That would be perfectly fine, But I did it this way because I want to start highlighting a really important principle in Java that's going to tie in very carefully with a lot of the pedagogical lessons of our first part of the class. So Java, unlike Python, there's a lot of types of lists that are normal. And I'm going to take a quick peek at this here. So if I open this documentation for the LISC interface. a bunch of operations lists have, like they have something called of, and they, well, that's a static method, so that's kind of not right, but can get the last index of the list. We can ask if it's empty. We can get an index of an object in the list. And there's also a bunch of different implementations. There's array lists and linked lists. oh, actually, sorry, That's not implementation. There's a linked list, There's a linked list, there's role lists, stacks, vectors, attribute lists, on write-on-array lists, they're all types of lists. And that's a very interesting distinction that we don't think about so often in Python. In Java, maybe you also just use ArrayLesson without even realizing that list exists. But this is an important property that's going to be really important to us in like a couple weeks. Now in the kind of code that you write Python in the predecessor classes for 61B, like in 61A or 88 or 87, there's not really a distinction syntactically between an abstract list and an actual implementation of a list. Like a list is a list is a list. aren't thinking about the fact that there exist other types of mutable sequences in Python. There are. You just think about it as there's this thing called list. But in Java, there's many types of lists, and the programmer has to specify which list they want. There isn't a first class default like Python where there's a concise syntax for the list that everyone uses. a template. So question for you, why bother doing this? Why have multiple implementations? What do you think? Complexity, is it that good or bad? They enjoy complexity. Tell me more. It's like, if you're a computer, you can see my desk, how do you put them in the back of the time? Oh, okay, so like, what seems like run times. Yeah. I mean, give me some other, plain, maybe more plain English. Yeah, maybe they use different amounts of memory. Got it. Yeah, there's speed differences, there’s memory differences, and we're going to see that in great detail as you build your own double-ended list in a little bit. right? So I guess my pre-game answer is you may have better performance in certain cases. So for example, link list in Java, if you remove the front item, it's fast. It doesn't matter if you have a list that's a billion items long, it will get removed super quick. Arrayalists are slow because what happens underneath the hood is everything screwed up. Another thing is that you may have additional operations in some types of lists. So for example, there's a thing called stack in Java, which also has a push in the pop operation, and we'll talk more about that. So as a preview for what we're going to do next time, I showed you just what lists look like back in Java 4.0, which is circa 2002. And in lecture three, we'll start seeing how lists are used today, and then start opening door a little bit towards building our own. So it's
